packages/rol/README.md, before:

# Rapid Optimization Library (ROL) Package

![Rapid Optimization Library](rol.png)

**ROL** (as in rock and _roll_) is a high-performance C++ library for numerical optimization.
ROL brings an extensive collection of state-of-the-art optimization algorithms to virtually
any application. Its programming interface supports any computational hardware, including
heterogeneous many-core systems with digital and analog accelerators. ROL has been used with
great success for optimal control, optimal design, inverse problems, image processing and
mesh optimization, in application areas including geophysics, structural dynamics, fluid
dynamics, electromagnetics, quantum computing, hypersonics and geospatial imaging.

For additional details, see [https://rol.sandia.gov](https://rol.sandia.gov).

Feature highlights:

1. Vector abstractions and matrix-free interface for universal applicability
2. Modern algorithms for unconstrained and constrained optimization
3. Easy-to-use methods for stochastic and risk-aware optimization
4. Fast and robust algorithms for nonsmooth optimization
5. Trust-region methods for inexact and adaptive computations
6. PDE-OPT application development kit for PDE-constrained optimization


## Copyright and License
See rol/COPYRIGHT, rol/LICENSE, https://trilinos.github.io/license.html and individual file headers for additional information.


## Questions? 
Contact lead developers:

* ROL team     (GitHub handle: @trilinos/rol)
* Drew Kouri   (GitHub handle: [dpkouri](https://github.com/dpkouri) or dpkouri@sandia.gov)
* Denis Ridzal (GitHub handle: [dridzal](https://github.com/dridzal) or dridzal@sandia.gov)

Commit message:

Snapshot of rol.git from commit 2a950a6ee345473843770e914aa8235a332ca1c2
From repository at git@github.com:sandialabs/rol.git

At commit:
commit 2a950a6ee345473843770e914aa8235a332ca1c2
Merge: 63695e34 e3b93ecc
Author: Aurya Javeed <aj463@users.noreply.github.com>
Date:   Fri Nov 14 20:35:44 2025 -0700

    Merge pull request #7 from sandialabs/trilinos-pr-fixes

    Fixes for inaugural Trilinos snapshot PR

Signed-off-by: Aurya Javeed <asjavee@sandia.gov>

packages/rol/README.md, after:

# Rapid Optimization Library (ROL)

![Rapid Optimization Library](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sandialabs/rol/refs/heads/develop/rol.png)

**ROL** (as in rock and _roll_) is a high-performance C++ library for numerical optimization.
ROL brings an extensive collection of state-of-the-art optimization algorithms to virtually
any application. Its programming interface supports any computational hardware, including
heterogeneous many-core systems with digital and analog accelerators. ROL has been used with
great success for optimal control, optimal design, inverse problems, image processing and
mesh optimization, in application areas including geophysics, structural dynamics, fluid
dynamics, electromagnetics, quantum computing, hypersonics and geospatial imaging.

For additional details, see [https://rol.sandia.gov](https://rol.sandia.gov).

Feature highlights:

1. Vector abstractions and matrix-free interface for universal applicability
2. Modern algorithms for unconstrained and constrained optimization
3. Easy-to-use methods for stochastic and risk-aware optimization
4. Fast and robust algorithms for nonsmooth optimization
5. Trust-region methods for inexact and adaptive computations
6. PDE-OPT application development kit for PDE-constrained optimization
7. Interfaces and algorithms for optimal experimental design


## Copyright and License
See COPYRIGHT and LICENSE.


## Questions?
Contact team or developers:

* ROL Team     (GitHub handle: @sandialabs/rol)
* Drew Kouri   (GitHub handle: [dpkouri](https://github.com/dpkouri) or dpkouri@sandia.gov)
* Denis Ridzal (GitHub handle: [dridzal](https://github.com/dridzal) or dridzal@sandia.gov)
