Contact Greg Sjaardema, gdsjaar@sandia.gov if there are any questions.

This directory contains the source code for the Sierra IO
subsystem. This can be compiled into a standalone version which does
not require any other Sierra Framework code.

This code includes database readers/writers for the exodusII and cgns
database formats.  There is also a unit test code which can function
as a translator.  

To compile the code, move the Makefile in io_system/scripts to the
top-level directory and then modify any paths that are required.  Then
type 'make' and it should create an executable named 'io_shell' in the
directory 'bin/{system_name}'.  For example bin/Linux on a Linux
system.

The io_shell executable can also be run directly.  If the code is given
a single argument, it is assumed to be an input file which contains
two lines.  The first line is the filename and filetype of the input
file and the second line is the filename and filetype of the file to
be created.  Valid options for filetype are 'exodusII' and 'cgns'.

NOTES:

0. For exodus support, you will need the exodusII, nemesis, and netcdf
libraries.

1. The io_system/src/main/Main_io_shell.C file can serve as minimal
documentation of how to use the Sierra IO system and also the
conventions used in the Sierra IO system. 

2. There is also some documentation in the io_system/documents
directory. Typing "make" in that directory should build the
IOSystem.pdf file containing low-level documentation of the code.

3. The file io_system/scripts/ioss.cfg is a doxygen configuration
file. To generate the doxygen output type "doxygen
io_system/scripts/ioss.cfg". It will create the html output in the
directory "html"
