#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
ParameterList Description
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The following description of the Rythmos ParameterList was auto-generated
 from the ParameterList itself, thus allowing easy refreshing of the input
 description and providing up-to-date information.
 Fig.
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset


\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "fig:ParameterList-schematic"

\end_inset

 is a hyperlinked, indented heirarchy of the Rythmos ParameterList, that
 provides an overall structure of the Rythmos ParameterList.
 The hyerlinks are connected to subsequent sections, which contain additional
 hyperlinks to parent and children sublists, and descriptions of the sublist
 and parameters.
 All these hyperlinks provide an easy way to hop around the parameters in
 order to setup the time-integrator.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The basic structure starts with the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Integrator Base
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, and is broken down into the Integrator and the Stepper.
 Each of these contain several sublists giving the details of the Integrator
 and Stepper, e.g., IntegrationControlStrategy, InterpolationBuffer, StepControlSt
rategy, and error weight vector.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An easy way to create a Rythmos ParameterList is to get a valid ParameterList
 from the IntegatorBuilder, and manipulate the parameters from there.
 In this way, one able to correctly setup the Integrator and Stepper for
 a transient soution.
 For example, 
\begin_inset CommandInset include
LatexCommand input
filename "RythmosParameterListExample.tex"

\end_inset

 Obviously, most software will get its input specification from the XML
 version of the ParameterLists, and then pass them onto Rythmos.
 The description provided here can also help in setting up those XML files.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset include
LatexCommand input
filename "RythmosUsersManualParameterList_Raw.tex"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
