#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Time integration is a central component for most transient simulations.
 It coordinates many of the major parts of a simulation together, e.g., a
 residual calculation with a transient solver, solution with the output,
 various operator-split physics, and forward and adjoint solutions for inversion.
 Even though there is this variety in these transient simulations, there
 is still a common set of algorithms and procedures to progress transient
 solutions for ordinary-differential equations (ODEs) and differential-alegbraic
 equations (DAEs).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Rythmos is a collection of these algorithms that can be used for the solution
 of transient simulations.
 It provides common time-integration methods, such as Backward and Forward
 Euler, Explicit and Implicit Runge-Kutta, and Backward-Difference Formulas.
 It can also provide sensitivities, and adjoint components for transient
 simulations.
 Rythmos is a package within Trilinos, and requires some other packages
 (e.g., Teuchos and Thrya) to provide basic time-integration capabilities.
 It also can be coupled with several other Trilinos packages to provide
 additional capabilities (e.g., AztecOO and Belos for linear solutions, and
 NOX for non-linear solutions).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The documentation is broken down into three parts: Theory Manual, User's
 Manual, and Developer's Guide.
 The Theory Manual contains the basic theory of the time integrators, the
 nomenclature and mathematical structure utilized within Rythmos, and verificati
on results demonstrating that the designed order of accuracy is achieved.
 The User's Manual provides information on how to use the Rythmos, description
 of input parameters through Teuchos Parameter Lists, and description of
 convergence test examples.
 The Developer's Guide is a high-level discussion of the design and structure
 of Rythmos to provide information to developers for the continued development
 of capabilities.
 Details of individual components can be found in the Doxygen webpages.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Notice:
\series default
 This document is a collection of notes gathered over many years, however
 its development has been dormant for the past several years due to the
 lack of funding.
 Pre-release copies of this document have circulated to internal Sandia
 developers, who have found it useful in their application development.
 Also external Sandia developers have made inquiries for additional Rythmos
 documentation.
 To make this documentation publicly available, we are releasing this documentat
ion in an 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset


\series bold
as-is
\series default

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 condition.
 We apologize for its incomplete state and obvious lack of readability,
 however we hope that the information contained in this document will still
 be helpful to users in their application development.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
